Simulations Run
===================================================================

Below is a summary of the three sets of simulations that have been run to date, and their corresponding files. **In all simulations**:

- Three traits evolve simultaneously
  - Precopulatory inbreeding avoidance/preference (10 diploid loci = 20 alleles)
  - Postcopulatory inbreeding avoidance/preference (10 diploid loci = 20 alleles)
  - Tendency for polyandry (10 diploid loci = 20 alleles)
- 5 immigrants per generation
- 8 offspring produced per female
- 5000 generations total per replicate
- Alleles mutate with a Pr of 0.001
- Perfect kin recognition
- Carrying capacity of 100 females and 100 males
- Four magnitudes of inbreeding depression ($\beta$ = {1, 2, 3, 4})

No cost simulations over time 
------------------------------------------------------------------

- 120 replicate simulations total (120 more in process)
  - 10 replicates across 4 levels of $\beta$ (0, 1, 2, 3) each
- Used to show null expectation of trait evolution over generations
- Figures: 
  - evo\_no\_cost\_B0.eps
  - evo\_no\_cost\_B1.eps 
  - evo\_no\_cost\_B2.eps
  - evo\_no\_cost\_B3.eps 

Random cost simulations with initial trait values of zero
------------------------------------------------------------------

- 400 replicate simulations total 
  - 100 replicates across all 4 levels of $\beta$ (0, 1, 2, 3) each
- Cost of each of the three traits is drawn from a random uniform distribution [0, 0.05]
  - For each set of randomised cost, each of the four $\beta$ values are simulated
  - This allows direct comparison of a set of costs across $\beta$, if desired
- Initial allele values (and therefore trait values) are always set to zero
- End trait values associated with inbreeding after 5000 generations are evaluated. Evolution of pre and postcopulatory inbreeding preference ($\beta$=0) or avoidance ($\beta$=1) is **defined specifically by having mean trait values >= 1 ($\beta$=0) or <= 1 ($\beta$=1)**:
  - Pre and post: Both **pre and postcopulatory** inbreeding preference ($\beta$=0) or avoidance ($\beta$=1) evolve
  - Pre not post: Only **precopulatory** inbreeding preference ($\beta$=0) or avoidance ($\beta$=1) evolve
  - Post not pre: Only **precopulatory** inbreeding preference ($\beta$=0) or avoidance ($\beta$=1) evolve
  - Neither: Neither pre nor postcopulatory inbreeding preference or avoidance evolve
- Figures show 3D plots of randomised costs with points colour-coated to reflect each of the four above conditoins:
  - EC\_Beta\_0.eps
  - EC\_Beta\_1.eps
  - EC\_Beta\_2.eps
  - EC\_Beta\_3.eps
- End trait values associated with polyandry after 5000 generations are evaluated. Evolution of polyandry is **defined specifically by having a mean polyandry trait value >= 1**:
- Figures show 3D plots of randomised costs with points colour-coated to reflect whether or not polyandry evolved:
  - PO\_Beta\_0.eps
  - PO\_Beta\_1.eps
  - PO\_Beta\_2.eps
  - PO\_Beta\_3.eps

Random cost simulations with initial trait values random normal N(0,1)
------------------------------------------------------------------

- 400 replicate simulations total 
  - 100 replicates across all 4 levels of $\beta$ (0, 1, 2, 3) each
- Cost of each of the three traits is drawn from a random uniform distribution [0, 0.05]
  - For each set of randomised cost, each of the four $\beta$ values are simulated
  - This allows direct comparison of a set of costs across $\beta$, if desired
- Initial allele values (and therefore trait values) drawn from random normal N(0,1)
- End trait values associated with inbreeding after 5000 generations are evaluated. Evolution of pre and postcopulatory inbreeding preference ($\beta$=0) or avoidance ($\beta$=1) is **defined specifically by having mean trait values >= 1 ($\beta$=0) or <= 1 ($\beta$=1)**:
  - Pre and post: Both **pre and postcopulatory** inbreeding preference ($\beta$=0) or avoidance ($\beta$=1) evolve
  - Pre not post: Only **precopulatory** inbreeding preference ($\beta$=0) or avoidance ($\beta$=1) evolve
  - Post not pre: Only **precopulatory** inbreeding preference ($\beta$=0) or avoidance ($\beta$=1) evolve
  - Neither: Neither pre nor postcopulatory inbreeding preference or avoidance evolve
- Figures show 3D plots of randomised costs with points colour-coated to reflect each of the four above conditoins:
  - EC\_Beta\_0\_z1.eps
  - EC\_Beta\_1\_z1.eps
  - EC\_Beta\_2\_z1.eps
  - EC\_Beta\_3\_z1.eps
- End trait values associated with polyandry after 5000 generations are evaluated. Evolution of polyandry is **defined specifically by having a mean polyandry trait value >= 1**:
- Figures show 3D plots of randomised costs with points colour-coated to reflect whether or not polyandry evolved:
  - PO\_Beta\_0\_z1.eps
  - PO\_Beta\_1\_z1.eps
  - PO\_Beta\_2\_z1.eps
  - PO\_Beta\_3\_z1.eps


Relevant notes
===================================================================

I'm becoming less inclined to continue with the current pre-copulatory versus post-copulatory approach to modelling. Another problem with this approach is that it assumes that both pre-copulatory and post-copulatory inbreeding behaviour will both start out in the same place -- random mating. This will almost *never* happen in nature. Species aren't going to be randomly mating at some point in their history, then have some sort of condition strike in which it becomes an effective race for selection to either act on post-copulatory inbreeding avoidance or pre-copulatory inbreeding avoidance. Almost certainly, how selection acts on each will differ with the constraints and potential pre-adaptations of each system. If there is any question to ask here, it must surely be whether or not one type of inbreeding adjustment can *invade* the other established type. Can precopulatory inbreeding avoidance invade in a system in which postcopulatory inbreeding avoidance already exists? This will probably (somewhat boringly) depend on the relative costs of each, but it makes a whole lot more sense to ask it this way rather than assuming each invades the null system simultaneously (note that this was not a problem for the inbreeding and polyandry manuscript, as one inbreeding strategy consistently evolved and was affected only by inbreeding depression).

Rather than starting everything off at zero, these simulations would be better off starting the system in one state, such as a magnitude of inbreeding depression that we know (based on previous modelling) leads to specific trait values of precopulatory inbreeding avoidance. Then, we could see if there is selection for postcopulatory inbreeding avoidance given the known state of precopulatory inbreeding avoidance. Another alternative would be to randomise the initial conditions, but this seems a bit weird -- then if initial conditions do matter, it would be difficult to see how, and to judge which initial conditions are plausible and implausible. Overall though, I don't see how we're going to get at some realistic map of what is expected and what is not. 

Update 15 AUG: I have committed and started running new code that randomises allele values for initial individuals. I'm still not sure that this is the best route given the above reasoning, but it is worth checking to see if the results are markedly different from simulations in which values are initialised at zero.

Update as a result of meeting on 26 Aug: 

Relevant references
===================================================================

\cite{Bretman2009} Bretman et al. find that female field crickets can decide how much sperm to store in a spermatheca, and that unrelated males ''contribute more sperm to storage and have correspondingly higher paternity success''.

\cite{Hosken1999} Hosken and Blanckenhorn comment on the relationship between multiple mating and the costs and benefits of inbreeding and genetic diversity. The focal idea is that the relationship between both inbreeding and fitness, and genetic diversity and fitness, should be sigmoidal. Thereby and the inflection point of the function, we have a non-additive relationship such that -- in general terms -- f(y+x) != f(y)+f(x). Authors suggest that this can be predictable, making multiple mating beneficial in small new populations where relatedness is high and genetic diversity is low, but costly for big populations where the opposite is true.

\cite{Tregenza2002} This study (on crickets) claims to be the first to find that polyandry helps females avoid the negative fitness consequences of inbreeding. A key hypothesis here is that males have higher reproductive success when they mate with non-relatives. 

\cite{Olsson1996a} These female sand lizards appear to accept all copulations, then allocate paternity after mating. Note that they looked at deviation from random mating, not the raw kinship differences. Suggests that females may not avoid, or be able to avoid (e.g., through pre-mating level kin discrimination) inbreeding, but post-copulation, inbreeding avoidance is readily accomplished.

\cite{Gasparini2011} The authors artificially inseminate female guppies with equal amounts of sperm from full-siblings and unrelated males. They find that fertilisation success was higher in non-relatives. This study was also unique in getting at the mechanism of paternity bias, which apperas to be differential sperm velocity (speed?) in the female's ovarian fluid.


Pre and postcopulatory inbreeding adjustment
===================================================================

Introduction
-------------------------------------------------------------------

- Polyandry has been widely hypothesised to adjust inbreeding, but theory showing the connection between polyandry and inbreeding behaviour remains poorly developed. Experimental and observational studies have found some support for the idea that inbreeding can be precopulatory or postcopulatory.

- Invoking precopulatory or postcopulatory inbreeding adjustment to explain polyandry has always been a bit ad hoc -- here is no modelling to predict when inbreeding adjustment should be pre versus postcopulatory in advance for any particular system.

- Which type of inbreeding adjustment mechanism evolves is likely to depend on the costs associated with precopulatory and postcopulatory inbreeding adjustment, and with the cost of multiple mating and associated constraints on mate availability. This links back to other evolutionary theory in which selection on other adaptive mechanisms, and therefore their evolution, is balanced by costs (surely can find a few key papers here). 
  
  - It is also relevant that postcopulatory inbreeding adjustment cannot be adaptive if there is no polyandry, but recent modelling (Duthie et al Evolution) shows that polyandry evolution can be expressed as a threshold trait, making variation associated with postcopulatory inbreeding adjustment potentially more visible to selection. 
  - Nevertheless, postcopulatory inbreeding adjustment inherently requires two potential costs, while precopulatory adjustment only requires one -- the magnitude of each should be relevant in pushing selection to either postcopulatory inbreeding adjustment or precopulatory inbreeding adjusment -- both would seem unlikely to be under selection simultaneously if there are associated costs because each would likely be redundant, and therefore desired inbreeding could be accomplished with one or the other without paying all costs. 
 - It is therefore necessary to see how costs might or might not interact to drive selection on pre and postcopulatory inbreeding adjustment.

- In the case of inbreeding, it is especially important to model the distribution of kinship in the population because evolution of inbreeding behaviour is highly sensitive to population size and available relatives, which will be dependent upon history of individual fitness (something like that -- cite Duthie and Reid AmNat).

- We model the evolution of precopulatory and postcopulatory inbreeding adjustment, and evolution of polyandry given associated costs of all three. We focus specifically on how strong selection will be on each given varying costs and inbreeding depression. We need to decide and explain here *why* we're doing all of the Model and Results below. If we end up with a sort of roadmap showing the parameter values under which pre versus postcopulatory selection on inbreeding adjustment is predicted, for example, I think we need to make its utlitiy clear. I think that the below, for example, are reasonable goals:
  1. We simply want empiricists to be able to make predictions about inbreeding adjustment mechanisms a priori instead of post-hoc. Perhaps we're not really interested in the theory per se (i.e., conceptual, ideally mathematical, clarity concerning *why* predictions are logically linked with assumptions of parameter values), just that some sort of framework is established to make predictions, and perhaps to serve as a conduit between empirical predictions and future theory.
  2. We really do want to develop theory to logically connect the assumptions of our model with clear predictions -- this would be a bit tricker given the complexity of the model, but I believe it would be possible if we narrow our focus a bit to a specific theoretical development (e.g., impact of relative cost values) and emphasise why an IBM is needed for it (e.g., to consider distribution of kin). Intuitively, some simplifying assumptions would probably lead to an elegant and intuitive mathematical prediction relating all the different costs, so we'll want to avoid having readers wonder why we didn't do this instead.
  3. Something else entirely -- perhaps to look at a specific mechanism of interest and see under what conditions selection favours it. This was an early idea, but I don't think we've decided to go in this direction.

Model **PARAGRAPH STRUCTURE AS FOR THE MANUSCRIPT**
------------------------------------------------------------------- 

*Use the subscripts for polyandry (P; self-evident), pre-copulatory inbreeding strategy (M; for mating strategy), and postcopulatory inbreeding strategy (F: for fertilisation strategy). Early on, it will be useful to more broadly define and distinguish between 'mating strategy' (pre-copulatory inbreeding strategy) and 'fertilisation strategy' (post-copulatory inbreeding strategy). Throughout, we can now refer to 'mating' and 'fertilisation'.*

- **First paragraph** A general overview of what the model is doing, which will look a lot like Duthie and Reid (AmNat) and Duthie et al. (Evolution). Mention somewhere in here that all individuals have 30 diploid loci, ten with alleles affecting polyandry, ten with alleles affecting pre-copulatory inbreeding strategy, and ten with alleles affecting post-copulatory inbreeding strategy. Also note that the traits affected by each of these loci can each potentially come with some cost ($c_P$, $c_M$, and $c_F$). Note that we are not assuming any constraints on accessibility to males, so all males are available at all times.

- **Section: Costs** Explain that each of three traits is associated with a cost, and that each cost independently affects a female's ability to survive and reproduce as a linear function of the values of traits such that mortality probability equals caused by tendency for polyandry phenotype is $c_P \times P_p$; mortality probability caused by mating phenotype is $c_M \times |M_p|$, and mortality probability caused by fertilisation phenotype is $c_F \times |F_p|$. Values $|M_p|$ and $|F_p|$ refer to absolute values of mating phenotype and fertilisation phentype, respectively, because the sign of $M_p$ and $F_p$ determines either inbreeding preference (positive) or avoidance (negative). Polyandry cost requires that the polyandry trait take a positive value, as females cannot take a negative number of mates. In the case of polyandry and mate choice, this cost is interpreted as a cost of mate searching, which can affect survival (references in the introduction?). In the case of fertilisation, this cost is interpreted as an energetic cost of having the apparatus to bias fertilisation to some sperm (reference in the introduction -- make sure this happens sometimes). Note that if any one of these three costs causes mortality, then the female does not reproduce at all.

- **Section: Polyandry** First a female will choose how many males that she will mate with based on her $P_{p}$ phenotype affecting her realised degree of polyandry. Explain how the 20 alleles affecting polyandry translate into a threshold trait that ultimately affects the number of mates that a female chooses. Can cite Duthie et al. *Evolution* for the rationale behind polyandry as a threshold trait.
  
- **Section: Mating** Explain the process by which females females choose mates (pre-copulatory inbreeding avoidance or preference). Emphasise that all males are chosen without replacement, so that a female can not choose the same male twice (i.e., the trait is really how many males the female will choose). Present how choice is calculated here.

- **Section: Fertilisation** Explain the process by which fertilisation is biased toward or away from releatives. Can explain that the function is the same as with mating, emphasising that there is therefore no *a priori* expectation that selection will be stronger on one type of inbreeding adjustment or the other. Emphasise that the sire of each of $n$ offspring will be chosen independently based on the which sires are available and their relative fertilisation qualities.
  
- **Section: Inbreeding depression** Explain the simple function of inbreeding depression. This will be challenging to make different than the Evolution paper, but 
  
- **Section: Immigration** I'm not sure that this needs its own section, actually.

- **Section: Carrying capacity** Emphasise that K = 100 for both females and males is reasonable for reasons of drift and selection.

- **Section: Analysis** This can include a very brief explanation of the simulations that were run, hence 'Analysis' really refers to an analysis of the model, not the simulations per se. We're only really looking at mean allele values to see what evolves and what doesn't for different costs. Explain that we really have two sets of simulations:

  1. Simulations with all combinations of zero and 0.02 cost values, which we look at the dynamics of mean values over generations (10 replicates each).
  
  2. Simulations with c_P = {0, 0.01, 0.02} with random values of c_M and c_F chosen between 0 and 0.05 (100 replicates each)




Results
-------------------------------------------------------------------

Figures and tables to include:

  1. Figure showing composite of 10 replicates with all combinations of zero and 0.02 cost values, showing the dynamics over generations.

  2. Figure showing random combinations of mating and fertilisation costs, with set polyandry costs of 0, 0.01, and 0.02 -- and 4 beta values. This table will show end results:

    - Selection for both precopulatory and postcopulatory inbreeding adjustment

    - Selection for precopulatory but not postcopulatory inbreeding adjustment

    - Selection for postcopulatory but not precopulatory inbreeding adjustment

    - Selection for neither precopulatory nor postcopulatory inbreeding adjustment



Discussion
-------------------------------------------------------------------

- Need a general overview of what we did at all? Perhaps not necessary, depending on the length of the manuscript.

- I see this as, possibly, a much more empirically driven paper, actually, in that I don't think we're really trying to address a theoretical problem per se so much as an empirical knowledge gap that can be addressed by modelling. In other words, I don't think that we're trying to develop theory so much as do a lot of modelling to provide context for previous and future experimental and observational studies. I suspect that theoreticians might not get much use out of this model, but empiricists just wanting a prediction might find it useful. I'm not sure whether or not this is a good thing, as it could dissuade the integration of theory and empirical work more than it bridgest the two, but perhaps some sort of road map to inbreeding predictions is needed upon which future bridges can be built. Future theoretical work could address *why* certain patterns are predicted more clearly; future empirical work could organise different study systems in a way that is coherent with predictions.

  - A consequence of the above, I think, would be that we need to really hit the mark with all of the different empirical studies of inbreeding adjustment in the literature, and perhaps see if they match well with the predictions suggested in Table 1.

  - Many such studies will probably not have measured relative costs, so we'll need to think carefully about what types of systems will have high and low costs of precopulatory and postcopulatory inbreeding adjustment, and polyandry. We'll need to also emphasise the need to measure relative costs, assuming that our results find that they are important.

- Perhaps we should also have a shorter section putting this study in the context of the limited prior theory, and suggest ways that future theory could fill in the gaps to understand the details of our model predictions more clearly.









